Welcome back to the digital
forensics concepts.
Path, in this course.
Network basics or on module 3,
network protocols.
We talk about the different
protocols used on the network.
A network protocol is simply
a set of rules that dictate
how data is transmitted between
devices in the network.
This is what allows their devices to
communicate with each other regardless of
their operating systems or how they're
made up, their structure or design.
So I can send messages or
transfer data within my network.
Even if I have say a Windows machine and
a Mac, I can still share data.
It doesn't matter
the structure in my machine.
Internet protocols.
The first we're going to talk about is IP.
IP is the method for
sending data from one device to another
solely based on their IP
addresses in the packet header.
It is the principal communication
protocol in the internet protocol suite.
For sending data across
network boundaries,
it is commonly referred to as TCP IP.
Because the two protocols that
are the foundation of this
are the transmission protocol TCP and
the internet protocol IP.
We're going to talk
about TCP very shortly.
The TCP protocol is what allows
us to send data over a network.
We talked about that with the IP
protocol commonly referred to as TCP IP.
And this particular protocol is reliable.
It is connection orientated.
And we're going to talk about
how it sets that connection up.
The TCP handshake is what allows
us to establish communication.
If I want to send a message to another
computer, I want to transfer some data.
My computer would send that receiving
computer or other device on the network.
A SYN request.
Once it gets that SYN, the other computer
will send back a SYN along with their ACK
and the acknowledgement.
And then receiving computer will send
back an ACK, acknowledging my SYN-ACK.
So it's SYN, SYN-ACK, ACK.
And we can see that, right,
clearly in the diagram and
this is called the TCP handshake once
this is completed communication starts.
So there's no question that
these two computers or
other devices on your network.
No they're communicating.
They've established communications
with this handshake.
Now when they're done sending the data and
they've checked to make
sure it's all there.
They're going to terminate
their communications and
they do this with the computer that
originally sent the sin to request in
the first place is going to send
over a thin or finish command.
The receiving computer is going to send
back a FIN-ACK a FIN stating that it
knows is at the end and
an acknowledgement acknowledging
that they received the FIN command.
The other computer will then send
back an acknowledgement acknowledging
the FIN ACK and transmission will end.
Communication will stop.
TCP is known as a connection
oriented protocol.
We saw that with handshake
transferring the packets and
then are cutting off of the transmission.
It does break the messages into
packets because if say one of my
packets doesn't get there,
I just have to resend that one packet.
You don't have to resend
the entire transmission again.
So this is if an error is encountered
during transmission, it saves time by only
having to resend whatever packets were not
received rather than the whole message.
And once the receiving device gets
the package they are reassembled
on the other end, the destination.
Now these packets can
take different routes.
They don't all have to go through the same
routes to get from point A to point B.
Some packets may take one route traffic
may get congested on that route and
then other packets may be rerouted around
in a different path to get there faster.
TCP is used to transmit data for
several protocols such as ftp.
The file transfer protocol secure shell or
SSH,
telnet email protocols such as a IMAP.
POP post office protocol,
simple mail transfer protocol.
SMTP and
the hypertext transfer protocol on one
commonly used on the internet http.
The slide shows commonly used ports
with these protocols, as we can see,
our file transfer protocol,
will commonly use port 20 or 21.
Whereas SSH secure shell we use 22.
We can see telnet uses 23 email.
SMTP is going to use 25 DNS,
which we talked about earlier,
which is how we translate those
URL into IP addresses and
IP addresses back to URLs,
that uses Port 53.
And we can see just going down the slide,
we have http the hypertext transport and
that would be the internet at 0.80.
And we have a IMAP which is
another intimate protocol but
it goes commonly goes across port 143 and
then https down at the bottom
of the slide goes across port number
443 Now these are the common ports
that you will see these protocols on
that doesn't necessarily mean somebody
can't have their network configured
differently and use a different port.
But commonly these are the ports
used by these protocols.
Now UDP or the user data gram protocol.
Now UDP unlike TCP is connectionless,
TCP we saw we established communication,
we transferred our packets,
we had error checking and
then the communication was
stopped with our FIN and
our FIN ACK UDP is a fire and
forget type of protocol.
It's considered connection list.
There's no handshake and
there's no error checking.
It would be like dropping a letter in the
mail and, you don't know if it gets there.
Where's UDP?
Excuse me?
Where's like TCP is
more like a phone call.
You pick up the phone somebody
answers on the other end.
You know, you've established connection,
you have your conversation and
then you say bye and you hang up with UDP.
There is no handshake, no error checking.
And again it is a fire and
forget type protocol,
Arc address resolution protocol.
Now art is a protocol
used to map IP addresses,
two Mac addresses to
their harbor addresses.
And this protocol operates
the data link layer,
data link layer, which is OSI layer 2.
And we're going to talk about
the OSI model in our next module.
But we have our IP address as you
can see in our diagram up at the top
that we have our art which
converts it to the Mac address.
Now this art keeps track,
there's something called ARC table where
your device will keep track of the IP
addresses and the Mac addresses.
And there's also something
called R poisoning language.
We're not going to talk about
this particular course.
But those addresses can
be altered by a bad guy.
And you'll think you're
going to say Google and
you're really going to the nefarious site.
So art is the address resolution protocol,
and
it's what converts IP
addresses into Mac addresses.
And it uses the ARP table.
In our next module,
we're going to talk about the OSI model,
which we've mentioned,
different data layers throughout here.
Different layers in the OSI model.
We're going to talk about each of these
layers and what they do and how they work.